---
layout: post
title: "Member Spotlight: Xilinx"
date: 2018-07-30
author: "P4.org"
category: members
header-img: assets/p4-background.png
---

*Editor's note: This post is the first in a new series of "member
spotlights" that will highlight activities of various P4.org
members. It is based on an interview with [Gordon
Brebner](https://www.cs.jhu.edu/~xinjin/), who was recently awarded
the inaugural P4.org Service Award for his contributions to the
community through the Language Design Working Group.*

<center><img alt="Xilinx logo" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/exilinx-logo.png" /></center>

        
# Please tell us a bit about Xilinx.

Xilinx pioneered Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) technology, and
is the current market leader. As FPGA has evolved, with the embedding
and integration of other programmable functions, Xilinx has recently
revealed itself as pioneering a new category: Adaptive Compute
Acceleration Platform (ACAP) technology. The important words here are
“programmable”, “adaptive”, and “acceleration”, all key attributes of
Xilinx products. This resonates with increasing programmability of
networks, at increasingly high speeds.

# What was Xilinx's motivation for joining the P4 Language Consortium?
    
Xilinx was one of the first companies to join P4.org. Xilinx already
had its SDNet programming environment (launched as a product in early
2014), for compiling the Xilinx Labs-created PX language to FPGA. PX
had a similar level of abstraction to P4 and indeed a considerable
intersection with P4. Xilinx felt that the value of SDNet would be
increased if P4 was to become a standard packet processing language
and Xilinx adopted it, initially alongside PX and ultimately to
replace PX. Xilinx also felt that its past experience with PX,
including customer feedback, would be of benefit to active
participation in defining and working on the new P4.org activities.

# What are some of the benefits you see for increased network programmability?

Xilinx's customer base is primarily in communications (wired and
wireless) and data centers. In these areas, there is an increasing
customer demand for network programmability, whether on the line card,
in the NIC or SmartNIC, or on the network switch.  With SDNet, Xilinx
is catering for this demand at the packet forwarding and switching
level. Further, especially in NFV appliances and in network-attached
data center functions, this programmability is coupled with
acceleration of programmable L4-L7 and payload processing in the data
fast path.  Beyond the conventional networking markets, Xilinx also
sees interest in programmable networking more broadly: for example, in
aerospace, defense, and industrial, markets.  Here, customization of
protocols is often important.

# How is Xilinx involved with P4 community efforts?

Xilinx has been involved in P4 community efforts from the very
beginning.  This started with a presentation and a 100Gb/s rate
demonstration at the first P4 Workshop in June 2015, and has continued
at the subsequent events. As a leader and pioneer with P4, Xilinx has
contributed to the Developer Days, as well as tutorials at other
high-profile conferences for differing types of experts, such as FPGA,
Hot Chips, and SIGCOMM. Together with Stanford and Cambridge
Universities, Xilinx has founded the P4->NetFPGA community, centered
around providing a “big green button” tool flow for compiling P4 to
the NetFPGA SUME platform much used by networking researchers working
on high line-rate systems.  Xilinx has been part of the P4 Language
Design Working Group since its inception, indeed co-chairing it, and
has been following the other three Working Groups since their recent
establishment.  In particular, Xilinx recently showcased an Inband
Network Telemetry (INT) inter-operability demonstration with Barefoot
Networks at the MWC and OFC conferences, based on the draft INT
specification from the P4 Applications Working Group.  Xilinx is also
a founding member of the ONF Stratum project, based on the P4 Runtime
specification from the P4 API Working Group.

# Does Xilinx have any products based on P4?

The May 2017 release of [SDNet](http://www.xilinx.com/sdnet) included support
for P4<sub>16</sub>, which had just been released. Various
improvements have been made in subsequent releases.  For example,
Xilinx has recently demonstrated a prototype Xilinx SmartNIC
platform---comprising NIC card with FPGA, P4 programming environment,
and DPDK runtime software---developed in Xilinx Labs. This is being
further developed by Xilinx as a new board-level product, to be
launched later in 2018.
 

